---
layout: post
title:  "Gerald Haslhofer Privacy Policy"
author: gerald
categories: [ policy]
image: assets/images/landscape7.jpg
---


Privacy Policy
This privacy policy ("policy") will help you understand how Gerald Haslhofer uses and protects the data you provide to us when you visit and use my apps.
We reserve the right to change this policy at any given time, of which you will be promptly updated. If you want to make sure that you are up to date with the latest changes, we advise you to frequently visit this page.
What User Data We Collect
When you use our apps, we will not collect any data. We will not collect:
•	Your IP address.
•	Your contact information and email address.
•	Other information such as interests and preferences.
•	Data profile regarding your online behavior on our website.
Safeguarding and Securing the Data
Gerald Haslhofer is committed to securing your data and keeping it confidential. Gerald Haslhofer has done all in its power to prevent data theft, unauthorized access, and disclosure by implementing the latest technologies and software, which help us safeguard all the information we collect online.
Our Cookie Policy
We do not use cookies.
Restricting the Collection of your Personal Data
Gerald Haslhofer will not lease, sell or distribute your personal information to any third parties, unless we have your permission. We might do so if the law forces us. Your personal information will not be used when we need to send you promotional materials.

Contact: haslhofer@outlook.com